NEW LinkableMigrationTask for migrating sheadawson-lin kable links (#261)
silverstripe/silverstripe-linkfield: docs/en/09_migrating/01_linkable-migration.md

Reviewer: Add a list of feature gaps - see the gorriecoe migration docs for an example.
We should make it clear what features from linkable do not have an equivalent in silverstripe/linkfield.

Reviewer: Some of the same things that apply to the gorriecoe docs will apply here - e.g. the changes to Anchor

Author: Updated

---
title: Migrating from sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable module
summary: A guide for migrating from sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable to silverstripe/linkfield
---

# Migrating from sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable module

The [`sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable` module](https://github.com/sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable) was a much loved, and much used module. It is, unfortunately, no longer maintained. We have provided some steps and tasks that we hope can be used to migrate your project from Linkable to LinkField.

> [!WARNING]
> This guide and the associated migration task assume all of the data for your links are in the base table for `Sheadawson\Linkable\Models\Link` or in automatically generated tables (e.g. join tables for `many_many` relations).

> > If you have subclassed `Sheadawson\Linkable\Models\Link`, there may be additional steps you need to take to migrate the data for your subclass.

Reviewer: Move this to below the feature gap list, to mirror its placement in the gorriecoe migration docs

Author: Updated

> [!NOTE]
> This migration process covers shifting data from the `LinkableLink` tables to the appropriate `LinkField` tables.

> > This migration task does not cover usages of `EmbeddedObject`.

Reviewer: This should be an item in the feature gap list instead of a callout block

Author: Updated

> [!NOTE]

> > If your site is running Silverstripe CMS 4.x, upgrade to CMS 5 first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If your site is running Silverstripe CMS 4.x, upgrade to CMS 5 first. You will most likely need to use a fork of `sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable` that is compatible with Silverstripe CMS 5 as part of this upgrade.
```
The module isn't **actually** installable because it lists the wrong constraint for `silverstripe/vendor-plugin`

Author: Updated

Author: Updated

> Once you have finished upgrading to CMS 5, return to this guide and continue the linkfield upgrade.

> [!NOTE]
> It's important to understand that we are going from a single table in Linkable to multiple tables in LinkField.
> Before we had 1 table with all data, and one of the field in there specified the type of the Link.

> > Now we have 1 table for each type of Link, with a base `Link` table for all record.

Reviewer: Don't have so many callout blocks immediately after one another like this. It's hard to read, and it [fails linting](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-linkfield/actions/runs/8591479114/job/23540288569?pr=261)

Author: Updated

> > Now we have 1 table for each type of Link, with a base `Link` table for all record.

Reviewer: I think these details are a bit too low-level for this guide. It's not going to affect anyone who's not doing some weird custom queries - and those people will be a lot more cautious about tasks like this anyway.
```suggestion
```

Author: Updated

## Setup

> [!TIP]
> We strongly recommend taking a backup of your database before doing anything else.
> This will ensure you have a known state to revert to in case anything goes wrong.

### Update your dependencies

Remove the Linkable module and add `silverstripe/linkfield`:

```bash
composer remove sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable
composer require silverstripe/linkfield:^4
```

### Configure the migration task

> [!NOTE]

> > Be sure to check how the old module classes are referenced in config `yml` files (eg: `app/_config`). Update appropriately.

Reviewer: This seems like a good note to add to the gorriecoe migration docs as well.

Author: Updated

1. Enable the task:

    ```yml
    SilverStripe\LinkField\Tasks\LinkableMigrationTask:
      is_enabled: true
    ```

1. Declare any columns that you added to the linkable link model which need to be migrated to the new base link table, for example if you added a custom sort column for your `has_many` relations:

    ```yml
    SilverStripe\LinkField\Tasks\LinkableMigrationTask:
      # ...
      base_link_columns:
        MySortColumn: 'Sort'
    ```

> 1. Declare any `has_many` relations that need to be migrated:

Reviewer: `has_many` and `many_many` are not documented for linkable - we should add a warning that we have made assumptions about how these relations are set up, and that developers pay close attention to these during and after the migration to ensure everything has worked as they expect.

Author: Updated

Reviewer: Can you please tell me which line that's been added to? I can't find it.

Author: I followed the example of the Gorriecoe migration documentation and added a warning at the end of the text.

Reviewer: The difference here is that with the Gorriecoe module `has_many` and `many_many` were explicitly supported. So all of the warnings from that module also apply, but we need an extra warning early-on that we're making assumptions about how people have set up their relations since there's no documented way to do it for linkable.

Author: @GuySartorelli , please, have a look this block: https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-linkfield/pull/261/files#diff-175a38f1b3d1d0a5d381bab10aa66cbcf785cf0290ac7a4097a34dc32942f197R63-R64

          # you will need to provide additional information
          LinkListTwo:
            # The table is required for many_many through
            table: 'Page_ManyManyLinks'
            # Extra fields is for $many_many_extraFields, or for any $db fields on a
            # many_many through join model
            extraFields:
              MySort: 'Sort'
            # For many_many through relations, you must add the names of the has_one relations
            # from the DataObject which was used as the join model
            through:
              from: 'FromHasOneName',
              to:  'ToHasOneName',
    ```

1. Declare any classes that may have `has_one` relations to `Link`, but which do not *own* the link. Classes declared here will include any subclasses.
    For example if a custom link has a `has_many` relation to some class which does not own the link, declare that class here so it is not incorrectly identified as the owner of the link:

    ```yml
    SilverStripe\LinkField\Tasks\LinkableMigrationTask:
      # ...
      classes_that_are_not_link_owners:
        - App\Model\SomeClass
    ```

### Update your codebase

> [!TIP]

> > Search for instances of `LinkField::create` and `new LinkField`, and hopefully that should give you all of the places where you need to update field name references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
If I was going through a migration, I might read this tip, go update any `LinkField` references, and then skip this whole section. I think it's better to exclude this tip. Updating `LinkField` references is an explicit step below anyway.

Author: Updated

> You should review how you are using the original `Link` model and `LinkField`, but if you don't have any customisations, then replacing the old with the new **might** be quite simple.

Reviewer: Add this to the gorriecoe migration docs too.

Author: Updated

> You should review how you are using the original `Link` model and `LinkField`, but if you don't have any customisations, then replacing the old with the new **might** be quite simple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should review how you are using the original `Link` model and `LinkField`, but if you don't have any customisations, then replacing the old with the new might be quite simple.
```
Emphasis on "might" could make it seem like we're not too sure about our code

Author: Updated

> 1. If you have used imports (`use` statements), then your first step might just be to search for `use [old];` and replace

Reviewer: The first step in the gorriecoe migration docs is:

> If you added any database columns to the `Link` class for sorting `has_many` relations, or any `has_one` relations for storing them, remove the extension or yaml configuration for that now.

Does that not apply for linkable?

Author: Updated

with `use [new];` (since the class name references have not changed at all).

  ```diff
  - Sheadawson\Linkable\Models\Link
  + SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\Link

  - Sheadawson\Linkable\Forms\LinkField
  + SilverStripe\LinkField\Form\LinkField

>   ```

Reviewer: Updating `use` statements is literally part of the next step. No need to duplicate it.
```suggestion
```

Author: Updated

    - use Sheadawson\Linkable\Models\Link;
    - use Sheadawson\Linkable\Forms\LinkField;
    + use SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\Link;
    + use SilverStripe\LinkField\Form\LinkField;
    + use SilverStripe\LinkField\Form\MultiLinkField;
      use SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject;

      class MyClass extends DataObject
      {
          private static array $has_one = [
              'HasOneLink' => Link::class,
          ];

          private static array $has_many = [
    -         'LinkListOne' => Link::class . '.MyOwner',
    +         'LinkListOne' => Link::class . '.Owner',
    +         'LinkListTwo' => Link::class . '.Owner',
          ];

    +     private static array $owns = [
    +         'HasOneLink',
    +         'LinkListOne',
    +         'LinkListTwo',
    +     ];
    +
    -     private static array $many_many = [
    -         'LinkListTwo' => Link::class,
    -     ];
    -
    -     private static array $many_many_extraFields = [
    -         'LinkListTwo' => [
    -             'MySort' => 'Int',
    -         ]
    -     ];
      }
    ```

1. If you had `many_many` through relation, delete the `DataObject` class which was used as the join table.

> 1. Update the usage of link fields. The other key (less easy to automate) thing that you'll need to update is that the old `LinkField` required you to specify the related field with `ID` appended, whereas the new `LinkField` requires you to specify the field without `ID` appended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the usage of link field (and `GridField` if you were using that to manage `has_many` or `many_many` relations).
    - Note that the linkable module's `LinkField` required you to specify the related field with `ID` appended (e.g. `HasOneLinkID`), whereas the new `LinkField` requires you to specify the field without `ID` appended (e.g. `HasOneLink`).
```

Author: Updated

    ```diff
      public function getCMSFields()
      {
          $fields = parent::getCMSFields();
    +     $fields->removeByName(['HasOneLinkID', 'LinkListOne', 'LinkListTwo']);
          $fields->addFieldsToTab(
              'Root.Main',
              [
    -             LinkField::create('HasOneLinkID', 'Has one link')
    +             LinkField::create('HasOneLink', 'Has one link'),
    -             GridField::create(
    -                 'LinkListTwo',
    -                 'Link List Two',
    -                 $this->LinkListTwo(),
    -                 GridFieldConfig_RelationEditor::create()
    -                   ->removeComponentsByType(GridFieldAddExistingAutocompleter::class)
    -             ),

>     +             MultiLinkField::create('LinkListOne', 'List list one'),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    +             MultiLinkField::create('LinkListOne', 'List list one'),
    +             MultiLinkField::create('LinkListTwo', 'List list two'),
```
We're mentioning this relation everywhere else in the examples so we need to make sure to add a field for it.

Author: Updated

              ]
          );
          return $fields;
      }

    ```

> 

Reviewer: Add a step for updating linkfield settings such as [allowed link types](https://github.com/sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable?tab=readme-ov-file#limit-allowed-link-types) - see the gorriecoe migration docs for an example.

Author: Updated

> ### Populate module

Reviewer: Reference the module by name (it's probably `silverstripe/populate` but double check that)

Author: Updated

See below for example:

```diff
- Sheadawson\Linkable\Models\Link:
-   internal:
-     Title: Internal link
-     Type: SiteTree
-     SiteTreeID: 1
-     OpenInNewWindow: true
+ SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\SiteTreeLink:
+   internal:
+     LinkText: Internal link
+     Page: =>Page.home
+     OpenInNew: true
-  external:
-    Title: External link
-    Type: URL
-    URL: https://example.org
-    OpenInNewWindow: true
+ SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\ExternalLink:
+   external:
+     LinkText: External link
+     ExternalUrl: https://example.org
+     OpenInNew: true
- file:
-   Title: File link
-   Type: File
-   File: =>SilverStripe\Assets\File.example
+ SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\FileLink:
+   file:
+     LinkText: File link
+     File: =>SilverStripe\Assets\File.example
- phone:
-   Title: Phone link
-   Type: Phone
-   Phone: +64 1 234 567
+ SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\PhoneLink:
+   phone:
+     LinkText: Phone link
+     Phone: +64 1 234 567
- email:
-   Title: Email link
-   Type: Email
-   Email: foo@example.org
+ SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\EmailLink:
+   email:
+     LinkText: Email link
+     Email: foo@example.org

```

> ## Replace template usages

Reviewer: This is a good idea. Please also cover the change of template file location for overriding default templates, and explicitly mention how the functionality in https://github.com/sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable?tab=readme-ov-file#customising-link-templates can be migrated - or simply state that we won't provide a migration path for that.

Author: Updated

**Before:** You might have had references to `$LinkURL` or `$Link.LinkURL`.\
**After:** These would need to be updated to `$URL` or `$Link.URL` respectively.

**Before:** `$OpenInNewWindow` or `$Link.OpenInNewWindow`.\
**After:** `$OpenInNew` or `$Link.OpenInNew` respectively.

**Before:** `$Link.TargetAttr` or `$TargetAttr` would output the appropriate `target="xx"`.\
**After:** There is no direct replacement.

> This is an area where you should spend some decent effort to make sure each implementation is outputting as you expect it to. There may be more "handy" methods that Linkable provided that no longer exist (that we haven't covered above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an area where you should spend some decent effort to make sure each implementation is outputting as you expect it to.
```
Don't need to mention that here - there should be a feature gap list above.

Author: Updated

> ### Custom links

Reviewer: Custom Links should be a subsection within a "Customising the migration" - see the gorriecoe migration docs for an example. At a very minimum it should mention that there's a bunch of extension points.

Author: Updated

Author: Updated

Reviewer: There's still no mention in the main "customising the migration" section about the extension points?

Author: Updated

If you have custom link implementations, you will need to implement an appropriate subclass of [`Link`](api:SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\Link) (or apply an extension to an existing one) with appropriate database columns and relations.

You need to update configuration `LinkableMigrationTask` so it knows how to handle the migration from the old link to the new one:

```yml
SilverStripe\LinkField\Tasks\LinkableMigrationTask:
  link_type_columns:

>     MyCustomType:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # ...
  link_type_columns:
    # The name of the Type for your custom type as defined in gorriecoe/Link/Models/Link.types
```
Not super important but keeps things more consistent with the gorriecoe migration guide and gives a little more context

Author: Updated

      # The FQCN for your new custom link subclass
      class: 'App\Model\Link\MyCustomLink'

>       # Only include columns that are defined in the $db configuration for your subclass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # An mapping of column names from the old link to your new link subclass
      # Only include columns that are defined in the $db configuration for your subclass
```

Author: Updated

Author: Updated

The task performs the following steps:

1. Inserts new rows into the base link table, taking values from the old link table.
1. Inserts new rows into tables for link subclasses, taking values from the old link table.
1. Updates `SiteTreeLink` records, splitting out the old `Anchor` column into the separate `Anchor` and `QueryString` columns.
1. Migrates any `has_many` relations which were declared in [`LinkableMigrationTask.has_many_links_data`](api:SilverStripe\LinkField\Tasks\LinkableMigrationTask->has_many_links_data).
1. Migrates any `many_many` relations which were declared in in [`LinkableMigrationTask.many_many_links_data`](api:SilverStripe\LinkField\Tasks\LinkableMigrationTask->many_many_links_data) and drops the old join tables.
1. Set the `Owner` relation for `has_one` relations to links.
1. Drops the old link table.
1. Publishes all links, unless you have removed the `Versioned` extension.
1. Output a table with any links which are lacking the data required to generate a URL.
    - You can skip this step by adding `?skipBrokenLinks=1` to the end of the URL: `https://www.example.com/dev/tasks/linkable-migration-task?skipBrokenLinks=1`.

>     - If you're running the task in a terminal, you can add `skipBrokenLinks=1` as an argument: `sake dev/tasks/linkable-migration-task skipBrokenLinks=1`.

Reviewer: Add the warning from the gorriecoe migration docs about `many_many` - it applies to this migration as well.

Author: Updated

Author: Updated

There are a few major changes between `sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable` and `silverstripe/linkfield`:

1. Link types are defined via subclasses in `silverstripe/linkfield` as opposed to configuration within a single model.
1. `silverstripe/linkfield` doesn't support `many_many` relations - these will be migrated to `has_many` relations instead.
1. Many fields and relations have different names.
1. The default title for a link isn't stored in the database - if the `LinkText` field is left blank, nothing gets stored in the database for that field.
    - This means any links migrated which had the default title set will be migrated with that title as explicit `LinkText`, which will not update automatically when you change the link URL.
    - If you want the `LinkText` for those links to update automatically, you will need to either [customise the migration](#customising-the-migration) or manually unset the `LinkText` for those links afterward.

The following additional items were identified as feature gaps, which may require some additional work to implement if you require them:

> - Adding custom class to link. The `setCSSClass()` method does not exist in Linkfield. But you can still can add an Extension to the Link class or develop your own custom link class and implement the logic of this method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adding custom css classes to link. The `setCSSClass()` method does not exist in Linkfield. You can still can add an `Extension` to the `Link` class or develop your own custom link class and implement the logic of this method.
```

Author: Updated

> - Customizing link templates. You can still call the `renderWith()` method and pass the name of your custom template, but `LinkField` no longer supports `templates` configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Customizing link templates. You can still call the `renderWith()` method and pass the name of your custom template, or use a template with the file path of the FQCN of the link subclass, but `LinkField` doesn't support the `templates` configuration.
```

Author: Updated

> - Limit allowed Link types. The `LinkField` module does not support the `allowed_types` configuration. Now, in order to set a limited list of link types available to the user, you should use the `Link::setAllowedTypes()` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Limit allowed Link types. The `silverstripe/linkfield` module does not support the `allowed_types` configuration. Now, in order to set a limited list of link types available to the user, you should use the `Link::setAllowedTypes()` method.
```
`LinkField` is a class in the `silverstripe/linkfield` module.

Reviewer: Also mention the `Link.allowed_by_default` configuration here, which can be used to globally disallow certain link sublcasses from being used in `LinkField`.

Author: Updated

- Custom query params. This functionality is not supported. You can no longer set the `data-extra-query` attribute to a link. But you can still add an extension to the link and template that will allow you to implement this logic.

> - `EmbeddedObject` field is not supported and you can no longer use the `EmbeddedObject` class as part of a LinkField.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `EmbeddedObject` and `EmbeddedObjectField` classes have no equivalent functionality in `silverstripe/linkfield`
```

Author: Updated

- If you have subclassed `Sheadawson\Linkable\Models\Link`, there may be additional steps you need to take to migrate the data for your subclass.

> [!WARNING]
> This guide and the associated migration task assume all of the data for your links are in the base table for `Sheadawson\Linkable\Models\Link` or in automatically generated tables (e.g. join tables for `many_many` relations).

## Setup

> [!TIP]
> We strongly recommend taking a backup of your database before doing anything else.
> This will ensure you have a known state to revert to in case anything goes wrong.

### Update your dependencies

Remove the Linkable module and add `silverstripe/linkfield`:

```bash
composer remove sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable
composer require silverstripe/linkfield:^4
```

### Configure the migration task

> [!NOTE]
> Be sure to check how the old module classes are referenced in config `yml` files (eg: `app/_config`). Update appropriately.

1. Enable the task:

>     ```yml

Author: Docs linting fails on this tag `yml`, I'm not sure that I can use required Upper case alternative. At least it doesn't work in my local env.

              [
    -             LinkField::create('HasOneLinkID', 'Has one link')
    +             LinkField::create('HasOneLink', 'Has one link'),
    -             GridField::create(
    -                 'LinkListTwo',
    -                 'Link List Two',
    -                 $this->LinkListTwo(),
    -                 GridFieldConfig_RelationEditor::create()
    -                   ->removeComponentsByType(GridFieldAddExistingAutocompleter::class)
    -             ),
    +             MultiLinkField::create('LinkListOne', 'List list one'),
    +             MultiLinkField::create('LinkListTwo', 'List list two'),
              ]
          );
          return $fields;
      }

    ```

1. If you applied [linkfield configuration](https://github.com/elliot-sawyer/silverstripe-linkfield?tab=readme-ov-file#configuration), update that now.
    - See [configuring links and link fields](../02_configuration.md) for more information.

    ```diff
    + use SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\ExternalLink;
    + use SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\SiteTreeLink;

    - $linkConfig = [
    -     'types' => [
    -         'SiteTree',
    -         'URL',
    -     ],

>     -     'title_display' => false,

Reviewer: Is `title_display` valid for linkable? It doesn't seem to be documented?

Author: Updated

    - ];

>     - $linkField->setLinkConfig($linkConfig);

Reviewer: That method isn't correct according to [the linkable docs](https://github.com/sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable?tab=readme-ov-file#limit-allowed-link-types)

Author: Updated

See below for example:

```diff
- Sheadawson\Linkable\Models\Link:
-   internal:
-     Title: Internal link
-     Type: SiteTree
-     SiteTreeID: 1
-     OpenInNewWindow: true
+ SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\SiteTreeLink:
+   internal:
+     LinkText: Internal link
+     Page: =>Page.home
+     OpenInNew: true
-  external:
-    Title: External link
-    Type: URL
-    URL: https://example.org
-    OpenInNewWindow: true
+ SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\ExternalLink:
+   external:
+     LinkText: External link
+     ExternalUrl: https://example.org
+     OpenInNew: true
- file:
-   Title: File link
-   Type: File
-   File: =>SilverStripe\Assets\File.example
+ SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\FileLink:
+   file:
+     LinkText: File link
+     File: =>SilverStripe\Assets\File.example
- phone:
-   Title: Phone link
-   Type: Phone
-   Phone: +64 1 234 567
+ SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\PhoneLink:
+   phone:
+     LinkText: Phone link
+     Phone: +64 1 234 567
- email:
-   Title: Email link
-   Type: Email
-   Email: foo@example.org
+ SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\EmailLink:
+   email:
+     LinkText: Email link
+     Email: foo@example.org

```

## Replace template usages

> The link element structure is rendered using the `Link.ss` template. You can override this template by copying it to the theme or project folder and making the necessary changes. You still can also specify a custom template to display the link by using the `renderWith()` method and passing the name of your custom template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link element structure is rendered using the `SilverStripe/LinkField/Models/Link.ss` template. You can override this template by copying it to the theme or project folder and making the necessary changes. You still can also specify a custom template to display the link by using the `renderWith()` method and passing the name of your custom template.
```
The path to the template is important.

Author: Updated

> The link element structure is rendered using the `Link.ss` template. You can override this template by copying it to the theme or project folder and making the necessary changes. You still can also specify a custom template to display the link by using the `renderWith()` method and passing the name of your custom template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link element structure is rendered using the `Link.ss` template. You can override this template by copying it to the theme or project folder and making the necessary changes. You still can also specify a custom template to display the link by using the `renderWith()` method and passing the name of your custom template.

You can also provide templates for specific subclasses of `Link` - the file path for those templates is the FQCN for the link.
```

Author: Updated

> Also, when working on your own template, you should consider the following differences in variable names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working on your own template, you should consider the following differences in variable names.
```

Author: Updated

    -                 $this->LinkListTwo(),
    -                 GridFieldConfig_RelationEditor::create()
    -                   ->removeComponentsByType(GridFieldAddExistingAutocompleter::class)
    -             ),
    +             MultiLinkField::create('LinkListOne', 'List list one'),
    +             MultiLinkField::create('LinkListTwo', 'List list two'),
              ]
          );
          return $fields;
      }

    ```

1. In `sheadawson/silverstripe-linkable`, the list of allowed link types was listed in the configuration file. `LinkField` uses a different approach, it is necessary to specify in the configuration those types of links that will be unavailable to the user. If you need to make a certain type of link available, you must use the `LinkField::setAllowedTypes()` method and pass an array of class names as a parameter.
    - See [configuring links and link fields](../02_configuration.md) for more information.

    ```diff
    - Sheadawson\Linkable\Models\Link:
    -   allowed_types:
    -     - URL
    -     - SiteTree

    + SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\SiteTreeLink:
    +  allowed_by_default: false
    + SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\ExternalLink:

>     +  allowed_by_default: false

Reviewer: This is back-to-front - here you're showing that they're the only allowed links in linkable (unless I've misunderstood how that config works), but they're being *excluded* in silverstripe/linkfield.
They'd need to set `allowed_by_default` to false on anything they *don't* want to be allowed.

    ```

    ```diff
    + use SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\ExternalLink;
    + use SilverStripe\LinkField\Models\SiteTreeLink;

    - $allowedTypes = [
    -     'SiteTree',
    -     'URL',
    - ];

    + $allowedTypes = [
    +     SiteTreeLink::class,
    +     ExternalLink::class,
    + ];

>     + $linkField->setAllowedTypes($allowedTypes);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      $linkField->setAllowedTypes($allowedTypes);
```
This would have already been there I think
